In my 2 years at CarTrade tech I have two accomplishments that describe my work ethic well. The first is a bug that existed in the codebase for more than 2 years. This existed before I joined the company. My Team Leader had informed me that this bug had been open for more than 2 years and it was affecting their metrics, but a lot of people have tried to resolve it but have been unable to replicate it. Since I was a person who liked to solve non convectional problems, I took the task up. I failed my first attempt and spent more than 4 hours, it was not a critical bug so 4 hours was the maximum time one could spend resolving it. The difference between this attempt and the previous attempt is that I picked the same bug again in the next sprint and by tweaking my environment to drop specific network packets, I was able to replicate and fix the bug. Replicating the bug was the most challenging part and I couldn't just give up because I have always ended up achieving what I've wanted to achieve (in the domain of software) and this nature of mine wouldn't allow me to forfeit.

The next incident reflects another aspect of my work ethic. If I see inefficiencies in a system that I own, I will eventually solve it. Now I was a full stack developer and CI/CD pipelines were owned by the devops teams. The build time for these pipelines was extremely slow and it was a pain to start the command and wait for it to build. It would take around 30 mins for a single build. I was convinced that there was a flaw in the system somewhere and that there definitely is a faster and more optimal solution to this. I started digging into the pipeline repo (which I didn't have access to and needed manager approval) and noticed that it was one step that was bottlenecking the entire process. This bottleneck was causing around 15 minutes. Now to solve this bottleneck I had to update tooling for the entire repo which would take up time from the sprint and my Team Lead declined as he thought it wouldn't work out the way I thought it would. So waited longer in the office and worked on a Saturday and updated the entire tooling for the repo. At the end I was able to reduce the build time from 30 mins to around 10 mins. I was really satisfied by the results and was awarded developer of the month at the company for this.