Q. Why are you interested in becoming an Enterprise Systems Software Engineering Intern?
A. I have always loved building software. I started with small scripts in 8th grade and moved from Android Development to Frontend to Full stack. In my 2 years of internship I was about building a small product for YourEngineer which taught me a lot how theses systems are setup and maintained on a small scale, after which my 2 years of full time experience at CarTrade Tech taught me how these systems scale to 80M monthly users. These experiences have etched in me a great enthusiasm towards building high quality enterprise software.

Q. Tell us about a project where something didn’t work as expected. What was the problem and how did you figure out what to do next?
A. At CarTrade Tech we had a bug that was open for around 2 years. Several engineers had tried to solve the bug but it could not be resolved as the scenario could not be replicated to solve the bug. This was contributing to around 30k error logs a week for our primary application. I had taken on the job to solve this bug and initially I bumped into the same roadblock as the others. I was unable to replicate the bug. I spent around 5 hours trying to thoroughly understand whether I could replicate the bug or not and ended up conceding as I thought I was wasting a lot of time on a not so serious bug. I was later convicted to repick the same bug and this time after giving it some time and analyzing all the previous context I had I was able to craft a plan that could strategically drop a few network packets and possibly recreate the bug. This approach worked flawlessly and I was able to reproduce the bug that would presumably happen on devices with weak internet that would occasionally drop a few packets. When these packets were dropped the page would infinitely re render causing the page to crash. This was then patched within an hour

Q. Describe a recent project where you used AI tools while building software. What did the AI help with, and what parts still required your judgement?
A. Again at CarTrade Tech I saw a inefficiency in the CI/CD Pipeline. The build times on the pipeline were extremely slow and I had given Claude the problem statement and to come up with solutions so that I could compare it with the solutions I had in mind. Claude was trying to optimize modules and build configs to try to get the best times but those were micro optimizations that would not really help with reducing the time. From my analysis I had already figured out that the most time was taken to download packages from the NPM registry and if we could reduce this time we could reduce the build times drastically. I did my research and found PNPM. I also explored what organizations do to use PNPM effectively on remote servers alongside docker and learnt about docker registry caching. I then asked Claude to migrate from NPM to PNPM and asked it to change the Docker commands and create a registry cache. Claude was able to execute the instructions flawlessly. A task that would take me 2-3 days took Claude around 3-4 hours with a lot of prompting as the migration was a huge task and the codebase had a lot of legacy code. Finally with the help of Claude I was able to bring down 30 min build times to just 10-12 minutes, saving a lot of engineering hours. 

Q. Tell us about the most technically challenging project you’ve built. What problem were you solving, what decisions did you make, and what would you do differently today?
A. I was trying to build a Adobe Scanner like tool on android that would be really good with black and white text. I had to go through OpenCVs documentation and understand concepts like image binarization. After learning these concepts I iterated through the entire Image and tried to binarize each pixel which was a huge waste of processing that could be done through matrices. It was foundational to my understanding of Android as a technology and Computer Vision. If I had to do it today I would do it with the help of matrices and using OpenCVs optimized functions.